[docs] add testing documentation (#7101)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/testing.rst

Testing
==========

Let's take a look at how 🤗 Transformer models are tested and how you can write new tests and improve the existing ones.

There are 2 test suites in the repository:

> 1. `tests`: tests for the general API

Author: grr, of course, I was thinking markdown - meant to do codeblock. will change to ``tests`` --

   
   These CI jobs don't run ``@slow`` tests.
   
2. There are 3 jobs run by `github actions <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/actions>`__:

   * `torch hub integration <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/.github/workflows/github-torch-hub.yml>`__ - checks whether torch hub integration works. Julien is in charge if that breaks. It doesn’t break very often.

   * `self-hosted (push) <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/.github/workflows/self-push.yml>`__: runs fast tests on GPU every PR.
     
   * `self-hosted runner <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/.github/workflows/self-scheduled.yml>`__: runs slow tests on ``tests`` and ``examples``:

   .. code-block:: bash

    RUN_SLOW=1 USE_CUDA=1 pytest tests/
    RUN_SLOW=1 USE_CUDA=1 pytest examples/

   The results can be observed `here <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/actions>`__.

Running tests
-------------

Choosing which tests to run
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> `Full documentation <https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/usage.html>`__.

Author: Good point, @sgugger! I rewrote it to make more sense.:

"This document goes into many details of how tests can be run. If after reading everything, you need even more details you will find them `here <https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/usage.html>`__.

Here are some most useful ways of running tests."

Look and feel variations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

pytest-sugar
^^^^^^^^^^^^

`pytest-sugar <https://github.com/Frozenball/pytest-sugar>`__ is a
plugin that improves the look-n-feel, adds a progressbar, and show tests
that fail and the assert instantly. It gets activated automatically upon
installation.

``pip install pytest-sugar``

To run tests without it, run:

.. code-block:: bash

    pytest -p no:sugar

or uninstall it.

Report each sub-test name and its progress
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For a single or a group of tests via ``pytest`` (after
``pip install pytest-pspec``):

.. code-block:: bash

   pytest --pspec tests/test_optimization.py 

Instantly shows failed tests
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`pytest-instafail <https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-instafail>`__
shows failures and errors instantly instead of waiting until the end of
test session.

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install pytest-instafail

.. code-block:: bash

    pytest --instafail

To GPU or not to GPU
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On a GPU-enabled setup, to test in CPU-only mode add
``CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=""``:
``CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES="" pytest tests/test_vision.py``

> XXX: Currently we have ``USE_CUDA=1`` which is currently False by default, but most likely this will change.

Author: OK, it'd just be tricky to remember that this section needs work, as I'm first waiting for some code changes, but I don't know when this will be approved. I will put it on my todo list.

I'm curious - why is it OK to have XXX in the code, but not in the docs? especially developer-oriented (i.e. end users most likely won't read this). Is it XXX that's the problem and not the fact that there is a note suggesting more to come in the future/this section is incomplete? Would TODO be acceptable?

.. code-block:: python

    def raise_exception(msg): raise ValueError(msg)
    def test_something_exception():
        msg = "Not a good value"
        error = ''
        try:
            raise_exception(msg)
        except Exception as e:
            error = str(e)
            assert msg in error, f"{msg} is in the exception:\n{error}"

Another approach to capturing stdout, is via ``contextlib.redirect_stdout``:

.. code-block:: python

    from io import StringIO
    from contextlib import redirect_stdout
    def print_to_stdout(s): print(s)
    def test_result_and_stdout():
        msg = "Hello"
        buffer = StringIO()
        with redirect_stdout(buffer):
            print_to_stdout(msg)
        out = buffer.getvalue()
        # optional: if you want to replay the consumed streams:
        sys.stdout.write(out)
        # test:
        assert msg in out

An important potential issue with capturing stdout is that it may
contain ``\r`` characters that in normal ``print`` reset everything that
has been printed so far. There is no problem with ``pytest``, but with
``pytest -s`` these characters get included in the buffer, so to be able

> to have the test run w/ and w/o ``-s``, you have to make an extra

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to have the test run with and without ``-s``, you have to make an extra
```

cleanup to the captured output, using
``re.sub(r'~.*\r', '', buf, 0, re.M)``.

But, then we have a helper context manager wrapper to automatically take
care of it all, regardless of whether it has some ``\r``\ s in it or
not, so it's a simple:

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers.testing_utils import CaptureStdout
    with CaptureStdout() as cs:
        function_that_writes_to_stdout()
    print(cs.out)

Here is a full test example:

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers.testing_utils import CaptureStdout
    msg = "Secret message\r"
    final = "Hello World"
    with CaptureStdout() as cs:
        print(msg + final)
    assert cs.out == final+"\n", f"captured: {cs.out}, expecting {final}"

> If you'd like to capture ``stderr`` use the ``CaptureStderr`` class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to capture ``stderr`` use the :obj:`CaptureStderr` class
```

instead:

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers.testing_utils import CaptureStderr
    with CaptureStderr() as cs:
        function_that_writes_to_stderr()
    print(cs.err)

If you need to capture both streams at once, use the parent

> ``CaptureStd`` class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:obj:`CaptureStd` class:
```

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers.testing_utils import CaptureStd
    with CaptureStd() as cs:
        function_that_writes_to_stdout_and_stderr()
    print(cs.err, cs.out)

Capturing logger stream
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you need to validate the output of a logger, you can use ``CaptureLogger``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to validate the output of a logger, you can use :obj:`CaptureLogger`:
```

Testing
==========

Let's take a look at how 🤗 Transformer models are tested and how you can write new tests and improve the existing ones.

There are 2 test suites in the repository:

1. ``tests`` -- tests for the general API
2. ``examples`` -- tests primarily for various applications that aren't part of the API

How transformers are tested
---------------------------

1. Once a PR is submitted it gets tested with 9 CircleCi jobs. Every new commit to that PR gets retested. These jobs are defined in this `config file <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/.circleci/config.yml>`__, so that if needed you can reproduce the same environment on your machine.
   
   These CI jobs don't run ``@slow`` tests.
   
2. There are 3 jobs run by `github actions <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/actions>`__:

>    * `torch hub integration <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/.github/workflows/github-torch-hub.yml>`__:  checks whether torch hub integration works. Julien is in charge if that breaks. It doesn’t break very often.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we should mention @julien-c here. We should all be in charge of checking if this test breaks or not.

Reviewer 2: And I don't think it's necessary to add "It doesn't break very often" either

>    * `self-hosted (push) <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/.github/workflows/self-push.yml>`__: runs fast tests on GPU every PR.

Reviewer 2: No, that runs only on commits on `master`, not on every PR. It only runs if a commit on `master` has updated the code in one of the following folders: `src/**`, `tests/**`, `.github/**` (to prevent running on added model cards, notebooks etc)

Author: Thank you for that clarification, @LysandreJik.
